#summary Installation guide for GPS
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured
_Some guys and girls, have made good videotutorials teaching how to install GPS properly if you need help. So thanks a lot for their work that i really apreciate._ 

{{{
GNU/Linux
  *Ubuntu 
  *Mint

Windows
  *Windows Vista
  *Windows XP
  *Windows 7
}}}
----
=GNU/Linux OS=
---- 

Instalation for Linux users

you can paste simply this line by line in a terminal , the command start with a copy of your existing preset and gimp configuration , because it still important to keep the possibility to revert later.
{{{
mv ~/.gimp-2.6 ~/.gimp-2.6-backup
wget http://gps-gimp-paint-studio.googlecode.com/files/GPS%201_5_final%20release.zip
unzip GPS\ 1_5_final\ release.zip -d ~/.gimp-2.6
rm GPS\ 1_5_final\ release.zip
}}}

==How to install GPS in Ubuntu by [http://www.youtube.com/user/Tru3m0sl3m Tru3m0sl3m]==
<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2_XuGPwlGxk"/>

To install Gimp Paint Studio with Additional Brushes, first we must know where the user directory of Gimp is located. Assuming you have installed version 2.6 is usually found at:

Windows : C:\Documents and Settings\username\.gimp-2.6

Mac : /Users/username/Library/Application Support/Gimp

GNU/Linux : /home/username/.gimp-2.6


=Windows OS=
----
==How to install GPS in Windows XP by [http://www.youtube.com/user/reeceyamato reeceyamato]== 
<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g1KnTepWQzs&NR=1&feature=fvwp"/>

==How to install GPS in Windows 7 by [http://www.youtube.com/user/reeceyamato reeceyamato]== 
<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1625YAwEMmQ"/>

=How to install GPS in German Language (Dutsch) by [http://www.youtube.com/user/HoneyballCookie HoneyballCookie]=
<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FpNWHgGw85k"/>



Step by step installation:
 * Install all the GPS brushes: copy the contents of the brushes directory to the folder with the same name in the Gimp directory.
 
 * Also copy the entire contents of the tool-options and paste it into the folder tool-options in the program directory. 

 * To have the new palette, copy the file mismuestras.aco.gpl from the palettes folder and paste into the folder with the same name in the directory Gimp.
 
 * If you also want to install the configuration of the GPS tools (recommended), you must copy the file toolrc and replace the already existing one (with the same name) in the program directory (you should make a copy of this file in case you later want to restore). 

 * Do the same with the file sesionrc if you want to modify the GPS position and rearrange the windows on the Gimp's screen. You should know that the layout and the interface are highly optimized to work comfortably with a screen resolution of at least 1280 pixels wide. It is also advisable to install this file, but first make a backup copy of the original one, just in case.

Once you have copied all directories and files, just start the Gimp, which will load the new configuration for the first time. In the tools panel you'll find two new shortcuts to the curves and tone / saturation, directly accessible from the main window. The interface of the window has been modified to have quick access to options for each tool and different color dialogs and palettes.
----






==How to install GPS. explained in text mode==
GIMP must be installed on your computer before installing GPS. If it is not you can download it from the official website. www.gimp.org
Once installed we can continue with the process. If GIMP is already running, exit the program (File->Quit).  This will make it easier to follow the installation steps. This should only take a few minutes.

Download the last version of GPS From the google code page:
http://code.google.com/p/gps-gimp-paint-studio/downloads/list

Unpack the file to any folder. If you open this folder you will find the following folders and files:

 * brushes (folder)
 * palettes (folder)
 * tool-options (folder)
 * sessionrc (file)
 * toolrc (file)

The brushes folder holds all the GPS brushes. Copy the contents of this folder to your GIMP brushes folder
On Linux:
_~/.Gimp-2.6/brushes_

On Windows:
_c:\documents and settings\<your username>\.Gimp-2.6/brushes_

The palettes folder holds all the GPS color palettes.  Copy this file to your GIMP palettes folder:
On Linux:
_~/.Gimp-2.6/palettes_

On Windows:
_c:\documents and settings\<your username>\.Gimp-2.6/palettes_

Open the tool-options GPS in the folder and copy all its contents inside the folder "tool-options" to
_~/.Gimp-2.6/tool-options_

If you want to *add some tools to the Toolbox* then copy the  *toolrc* file to the top level of your GIMP configuration folder.  This file will add icons for the Hue/Saturation and Curves dialogs to the Toolbox.

If you want to use *GPS dialog layout* then copy the file *sessionrc* to the top level of your GIMP configuration folder.  

_Note:  this will change the layout of GIMP's windows.  Save a backup copy of the original sessionrc (just rename it to sessionrc.old, for example) that you can restore if the new layout does not suit your needs._

Start Gimp.  The next two steps are optional but will improve the overall usability of the user interface.  First,  go to Edit->Preferences->Toolbox and activate the three options there. Then go to Edit->Preferences->Tool Options.  On this page, under the Paint Options Shared Between Tools, disable the three options (Brush, Pattern, and Gradient).

*Final Tips*
Launch the GIMP.

Go to 
	_Edit->Preferences->Image Windows/Mouse Pointers_

disable the “Show brush outline” option and make sure you have “checked” or enabled the “Show pointer for paint tools”.
This will increase the speed of brushes when you are painting.

Go to 
	_Edit->Preferences->Toolbox_
Enable the three options.

Go to 
	_Edit->Preferences->Tool options/Paint options shared between tools_
Disable the three options.